Let's move on.
So we've covered the anatomy, we did a
really high-level overview of the maturity
model, and
we just kind of explained origin stories.
Now what I'd like to do is kinda walk
you through a very simple framework for
how to mature your system.
So in order to mature through
the stages in a healthy way,
no matter what origin story you have,
there are three areas of focus that you've
always got to be working in,
period, all the time.
And those three are education,
engagement, and evolution,
conveniently all starting with an e.
[LAUGH] So the first one,
education, educate,
this is where it's you,
a one-way interaction, teaching, right?
You're educating folks
throughout the organization.
These could be potential subscribers,
they could be your existing subscribers,
they could be stakeholders, leadership.
And you're just essentially
teaching them about the system and
why this is important, right?
When I mentioned those two
consulting engagements from earlier,
this is one of the things
they had both been missing.
They weren't doing the work to
spread around that common language,
the common understanding,
the reasons why they were doing the work.
And when you make assumptions
about that stuff,
folks are gonna come up
with their own stories.
So that's really what was
happening in both of those cases.
The other thing you're trying to do
here is really cast a vision for
what the system could be and
what it could do for your organization.
And that's why I think it's
important to have some
time in your day set aside to
the higher level thinking, right?
That 30,000 foot view of what is it we're
actually trying to accomplish here?
Where could we go if we
did this really well?
You're responsible for essentially
leading that part of the effort.
You have to cast a vision, nobody else
is gonna do that [LAUGH] for you.
So that's a part of this, and
that's all part of these education tasks.
Engagement is a two-way interaction.
This is where you're interacting with the
subscribers in particular, or leadership.
This is where you're learning from them,
right?
So the example I gave a moment ago of
observation is one way you can engage
with them to understand the kind
of problems that they're facing.
Anything where you're getting feedback,
right?
So if you've got a way for
them to submit bugs or ideas or
that kinda thing,
that's all part of engagement.
Really the goal here is to kinda give them
a say in the way that the system grows,
and that's how you build something
that's actually valuable for them.
And of course, engagement means you're
always looking to recruit folks, right?
You're trying to get them
on the team of the system.
Not maybe necessarily
full-time billing on the team,
but you want them as adopters,
you want them as contributors.
And so in order to do that, they have
to know that there's value in what
they can offer you and
you have to communicate that with them.
And then evolution is kind of the things
that everybody thinks of when
they're doing a design system.
They think I need to go build this,
I need to go design this.
So it's a team effort, it's iterative,
you're making the system better.
Anything you're doing in terms of design,
where you're
actually creating components or
development, where you're building those.
Or user experience, maybe where you're
testing and iterating on those,
all of those things, right?
And remember not just the assets, but
your documentation and your processes,
all of that is part of
evolving the design system.
One of the most common problems that I
see in folks when we're doing sort of
these assessments of a system.
When somebody feels like
they're kinda getting stuck and
they can't break through into
another stage of maturity,
most often it's because they're focused
on only one or two of these things.
And they haven't done the work to either
educate, or maybe they haven't done
the work to engage, so they're having
a hard time with adoption, right?
For me, it's usually pretty simple.
It's kinda go in,
understand the steps they've taken so far,
do some interviews with subscribers and
the systems team, and
then we can quickly identify,
you know what?
There's a lot of confusion about this.
Or you asked for
people to contribute and they did, but
you didn't use their contributions.
So now they're feeling like,
we didn't have a good process
around contribution, right?
So there's maybe gaps in some
of the things that you've tried.
So what we try to do is help them take
that bigger view, sit back and take a look
at all the things they've done, map out
where those fit into something like this,
and then say, actually, we are missing
this and we're missing this.
Let's show up the foundational pieces so
we can move through this in a healthy way.
Now I wish it was as easy
as just do the education,
do the engagement, do the evolution,
and then you move into the next stage.
But [LAUGH] of course, it's not.
So I tend to think of it
kinda more like this, right?
It's just a cycle of these three things,
and you're just constantly doing these.
And after you do that long enough,
you're gonna kinda look up and
realize, we've actually matured in
a really healthy way into the next stage.
So, very simple, right?
If we take this,
we can kinda overlay it on top of
the four stages of maturity like this.
And I draw it like this because
I want you to see that.
I call this an additive framework.
In other words, it's not a set of things
you do in stage 1 that are educational and
then you stop doing those
when you get to stage 2.
Instead, when you move to stage 2,
you're adding more of those tasks, but
you can never stop being the person
casting the vision, right?
You can never stop educating about
what a system is, why it's important.
Those are just things
that have to be part,
they just always have to be
coming out of your mouth.
[LAUGH] People are gonna get
sick of it and you, as a leader,
are gonna feel like you're
just repeating yourself.
But the thing is you're talking to
different people all the time, so
you have to push through that kind of
fear of just sounding repetitious.
And the other reason I draw this is
cuz when I have conversations with
executives about budgets, I like to
show them that the volume of work this
team is trying to tackle is growing
a lot as the system matures, right?
The things you have to do in stage 1 just
to get the first version live, well,
it's a smaller team, very focused.
But when you get to stage 2, when you
get to stage 3, you need more people,
you need more time, it's almost
impossible to do this without that.
And so this visually tries to
kinda communicate that, hey,
we're expanding the scope
of the work here.
So let's talk about, just quickly,
the way that these three es, education,
evolution, and engagement, change
through the stages a little bit, okay?
So in stage 1, education tends to be
things like just very simply defining
what systems are, [LAUGH] and doing so in
the context of your specific organization.
So this is not you going out and
looking up someone else's
definition of a design system and then
just putting it in your PowerPoint, right?
This is you actually thinking through how
does this impact us in our context and
communicating about that, right?
Sharing the benefits, sharing
the investment costs, the approach,
casting that vision that we talked about.
Engagement here, and we're gonna spend a
lot more time on this a little later, but
this idea of discovering what will
make your first version really
desirable, right?
So in stage 1,
you're setting yourself up for
either your adoption success or
your adoption failure.
And what I would recommend is that you
really invest in this engagement activity
stuff in stage 1, because that's kinda
set you up for a really easy stage 2,
if you've built something that's valuable.
Of course, also engagement, you're gonna
be identifying early adopters who might
test, identifying leaders who might be
interested in supporting things like this.
And evolution, it's all the stuff you need
to get that first version live in stage 1,
so you're iterating toward
that first release,
you're sometimes focused
on the fundamental layers.
You're building a doc site often, we
haven't even talked a lot about that, but
most design systems have a documentation
site where these things kinda live.
There's all kinds of great
third-party tools for building those.
A lot of folks build those
from the ground up themselves.
But it's sort of a single place
where all of this lives, and
you kinda link out to all the important
resources and assets and stuff for folks.
And you're writing really good docs here,
especially around how to use the system
and how to come on board as a subscriber.
So that's high level the kinds of things
that you'll be thinking about at stage 1.
Now when you move into stage 2,
you've got that first version live,
you don't stop doing these things,
[LAUGH] right?
You're gonna continue iterating, right?
You're gonna continue building the doc
set, you're gonna continue evolving all
this stuff, but you're also gonna
add to it a bunch of new stuff.
So in stage 2, education grows, right?
Now I didn't have a system to
show in stage 1, now I have one.
So now in terms of education,
I can demo this thing.
I can actually show you how it works,
I can even sit with you,
maybe in the engagement section,
I can help you do that.
We wanna capture these demos and record
those and put them in the doc site and
even transcribe them so
the content is searchable, and
all of that should be part of what
you're thinking about, right?
You wanna share some adoption stories,
I actually recommend that you
tell some really good stories.
Here's a couple use cases where
this team really wanted it.
They came on board and
a matter of weeks and
all of a sudden we're seeing
some really good improvements.
And tell some of the horror stories too,
right?
This team tried to use it,
they really struggled, and here's why, and
here's what we did to help them, right?
That's you communicating that
you're a partner to them,
not just that you want the folks to
come on and figure it out themselves.
This is where you now
have probably a roadmap,
you're thinking about
the future of the system.
You're giving those folks a voice
collaborating in the roadmap in
the engaged area.
But you wanna share in terms of
education of what's coming next and
why we've chosen to do those things.
And then we're gonna talk a lot more
about adoption goals and metrics too,
because that's a really tricky,
that's a very nuanced conversation, so
we've got a whole deep dive
section on that in a moment here.
But it's time,
as you develop those things,
you really have to be educating
folks about what it means to adopt,
cuz that's a whole another
conversation of complexity.
Pairing in the engage area, gathering
feedback, collaborating on that roadmap.
Of course, supporting the people who
have already subscribed, and then doing
the work to go up, if you're grassroots,
talk to leaders, get financial support.
Doing the work to move down,
get to know the individual contributors,
understand how you can support
them better if you're top down.
And then evolution, of course, you're
continuing to evolve the system, right?
But specifically, documentation
that really covers how to adopt,
this is one of the ways
you make it easy for
them to come on board as you make it very
clear and very simple for them to do so.
I say strategically adding new
features because in stage 2,
oftentimes your team hasn't actually grown
in size, but the scope of work is larger.
So you've gotta be really careful
about where you spend your time here.
I think you've gotta be really specific
about the features you wanna add or
the new components or whatever it is
that you're adding to the system.
And you've gotta make sure that
it's really well documented so
that it's trustworthy,
the quality has to be there.
And again, strategically fixing issues,
there's a lot of prioritization
that has to happen in stage 2.
Stage 3, surviving the teenage years.
Now we actually have
some adoption going on.
So what we can do is, and
we're gonna talk a lot more about this,
we're gonna start to
correlate improvements,
the promises we made earlier,
we're gonna be more efficient.
It's very generic, but
So now you can start to correlate the use
of the system with better efficiency in
those teams.
And that's tricky to do, but that's how
you kinda make good on your promises.
We see lots more sophisticated
communication strategies here,
very refined documentation for
how to use the system and how to adopt.
We're starting to see
things like governance and
contribution come into play.
And so we're educating, we're doing
the work to kinda share all of that.
There's this sort of series of processes
that kinda come into play usually in stage
3, ambassador or something like
this is kinda what they're called.
But the idea is just that an individual
who's not dedicated to one team or
the other spends time with one team or
the other.
So you may be sending somebody as an
ambassador into a product or feature team,
or they may be sending somebody to kinda
come on board the systems team for
a while and spend some time there.
So there's all kinds of different
ways to structure that.
That's a really cool way
to engage with folks,
it's also really disruptive
to all the teams involved.
So it comes with pros and cons and it
kinda depends on what you need in a given
season as to whether I would
recommend you doing that kinda thing.
I see organizations start to
host those folks coming in, but
also to provide really cool onboarding,
right?
This is another way where you can sort
of solidify the value of the system in
different ways is by saying, hey,
all of our product teams
are supposed to be using this thing.
When a new employee starts,
we've developed the whole curriculum for
them to learn the system, all right?
So now new employees spend a few
weeks learning the system,
they go into your product or feature
teams as real advocates with a solid
understanding of how we do interface work,
right?
So this is powerful stuff.
You're taking the load off of other teams,
you're the right person to be doing that,
you're the right team to be doing that.
So I think there's a lot of value
in that as a potential engagement,
sometimes accepting contributions,
really solidifying that support, and
of course,
continuing to evolve the thing, right?
We start to see a lot more definition
of more complicated processes here,
continuing to add documentation and
assets.
This is where we're seeing teams,
well, okay,
we've done all the things we can do
to support the folks using React,
now we gotta bite the bullet and
get all the Angular stuff in here.
So now we're taking on
that extra work of saying,
we're gonna manage two sets of assets and
two different frameworks for
our dev teams to use, and we're gonna
own keeping those things in sync.
And we're gonna work with those
teams to really figure out how to do
this in a healthy way.
In that case, you might also choose to
scale back a little bit on how much you're
gonna offer, right?
So it's okay to be removing
some of these things,
that's where we start to see
deprecation come into play.
So stage 4, all the things we've
talked about, of course, but
also this is where you're kinda getting
a seat at the bigger table, right?
So here it's where you're actively
participating in some bigger picture
conversations.
These teams are the ones that have their
pulse on what's happening in the industry,
pulse on what's happening
throughout the organization.
And they're explaining the design system's
role in any of these new initiatives that
might come along.
They're actively demonstrating
how the system is making all
the product work better.
They are continuously interacting
with subscriber groups of course,
and they're sitting at the table for
big conversations.
Really, the evolution here is about making
sure that we're actually giving you
the best way to design and
build digital interfaces in our context.
So it's very much a leadership,
it's a really proactive kind of approach,
whereas a lot of the earlier stages
are a little bit more reactive.